Most people use Claude like a search
engine with better grammar. They type a
question, get an answer, copy and paste
it somewhere, and move on. And that's
completely fine. But that's how you're
supposed to use AI back in 2024, and
it's currently 2026. And Anthropic just
launched something called Claude managed
agents. And it represents the gap
between how normal people use Claude and
how professionals are leveraging Claude
to build systems, software. In this
video, I'm going to break down exactly
what managed agents is, how it works,
what it costs, but more importantly, I'm
going to map out the entire Claude
ecosystem for you, skills, plugins,
connectors, agents, and show you where
each one fits into the piece of the
puzzle. So, you know exactly what you
should be using and why you should be
using it. Also, if you want to dig a
little deeper into this, make sure you
watch this video on the head of product
of Notion is using Claude managed agents
to build tools and handle tasks for him.
Because from what I've seen so far, the
difference in how powerful AI is isn't
in how smart you are and how or how you
use it. Everyone's using the same model,
the same brain, but the difference where
their Claude waits for you or works for
you. So, what is managed agents? So, to
put it simply, right now, if you want to
build an AI agent that actually does
work in production, like not a chatbot,
not demo, but something that runs for
hours, makes decisions, calls tools,
writes code, handles errors, debug code,
you have to build a mountain of
infrastructure around it first. Just
kind of like kind of like sandbox
execution environment, so the agent
doesn't really break your production
systems. Also, having state management
so it remembers what it was doing if
something crashes. Also, credential
handling, permission systems, error
recovery, tracing, that's months of
engineering before you write a single
line of user-facing code. But managed
agents handles all of that. You define
three things, the task, the tools the
agent calls and can use, and the
guardrails, meaning the boundaries of
what it's allowed to do. Anthropic runs
everything else on their infrastructure.
But from what I've seen, the features
which matters most, first is the long
running sessions right here. Your agent
can operate for hours autonomously,
right? If it disconnects, progress
persists, like they keep on working. And
it picks up exactly where it left off.
Secondly, is the built-in orchestration,
which is pretty cool, right? The
harness, that's the loop that controls
the agent. It decides when to call
tools, how to manage context, how to
recover from errors, so you don't really
have to build that yourself. And third
is session tracing, right? Every tool
call, every decision and failure mode is
visible in the Claude console. And
that's pretty much your debugging layer.
And two features are currently in
research preview, meaning that they're
not generally available yet to us, like
multi-agent coordination, lets agents
spin up other agents to work in
parallel, just kind of like open Claude.
Self-evaluation tests lets you define
success criteria and Claude iterates
until it meets them. And they both
require requesting access as well. Now,
here's the engine under the hood, right?
Anthropic published a deep engineering
blog alongside this launch, right? And
the core idea is pretty clever. They
separate the agent into three
independent pieces. So, the first one is
the brain here, right? That's Claude and
its harness, right? The reasoning loop.
And then there's also the hands, which
is sandboxes and tools that executes
actions. And then there's the session,
which is the log of everything that's
happens, and they're all stored
separately. And why does it matter?
Well, each piece can fail independently,
right? If a sandbox dies, the harness
catches it and spins up a new one. If
the harness itself crashes, a new
harness reads the session log and picks
up exactly where it left off. So,
nothing is a single point of failure.
And Anthropic's engineering blog
compares this to how operating systems
were designed, right? The abstractions,
process, file, they were built to be
general enough for programs that didn't
exist yet. And managed agents is built
the same way, right? The interfaces stay
stable while the implementations change
with each model upgrade. And who's
already using, you know, Claude managed
agents right now? Anthropic launched it
with a roster of enterprise early
adopters, and here's what each one is
doing right now. Kind of like earlier in
the video where I kind of requested you
guys to watch the video of having a
really special use case to use Claude,
and I'm not sure why Claude isn't buying
Notion yet. I think they would have a
really good integration together. And
this isn't a product announcement with
no users. Anthropic launched with
companies already running managed agents
in production, right? So, Notion, they
build custom agents directly inside
workspaces. Engineers use it to ship
code, knowledge workers use it to
generate presentations and websites.
Dozens of tasks run in parallel while
the team collaborates on the output. And
Sentry right here, this one got my
attention. They had an existing
debugging tool called Seer that does
root cause analysis. Now, they've paired
it with Claude-powered agent that writes
the patch and opens a pull request
automatically. The bug gets flagged, the
fix gets generated, and they say they
shipped in weeks instead of the months
they originally planned. Rakuten also
deployed specialist agents across five
departments, product, sales, marketing,
finance, and HR. Each one plugs into
Slack and Teams as well. Employees
assign tasks, and then the agents return
deliverables like spreadsheets and slide
decks. And each agent was stood up
within 1 week. And Asana AI also built
AI teammates, agents that work alongside
humans inside project management flows,
picking up tasks and drafting
deliverables automatically. And here are
two numbers to know just for a little
bit of context. Internal testing showed
managed agents improved task success on
structured file generation by up to 10
percentage points over standard
prompting. And this is the biggest gains
on the hardest problems. And also, the
time to first token, and which is that
pretty much means that's how long before
the agent starts producing output,
dropped 60% at the median and over 90%
at the 95th percentile. Because the
brain starts reasoning immediately while
sandboxes only spin up when needed. Now,
before we go any further, I need to give
you some of the context here because
managed agents doesn't exist in
isolation. It's one layer of a much
bigger ecosystem that Claude has built
out. And most people don't even
understand how these layers really fit
together. So, let me map it out. Claude
now has five layers, right? And most
people only use layer one. The first
layer is the chat layer, right? This is
what 95% of people do, right? They open
Claude.ai, they chat with it, they type
in a question, get an answer, copy and
paste it somewhere, and you know, that's
pretty much it, right? Layer two are
connectors. You plug Claude into your
actual data, maybe your Google Drive,
your Gmail, your calendar, Slack,
Microsoft. Now, Claude can now read your
files, your emails, your messages, and
then it stops being a generic AI and
starts being your AI. No code required.
No, you just click connect,
authenticate, and then you're done,
right? Layer three is when you start
using skills, and it starts getting
interesting here, right? A skill is a
reusable instruction file that teaches
Claude how to do a specific type of
work. Think of it like a job description
and a tutorial that loads automatically
when the task is relevant. So, for
example, you could have a brand voice
skill that enforces your tone across
everything Claude writes. Let's say
you're a huge branding agency and you
work with a lot of branding clients. Or
a document review skill that follows
your exact checklist. Or a client
onboarding skill that generates the same
deliverables every single time. You
write it once and it it applies it every
single time. And all in all, skills are
just markdown files, right? They cost
almost nothing in terms of compute and
tokens. And progressive disclosure means
that Claude only loads the full skill
content when the task actually requires
it. And a library of 20 different skills
might only cost a few hundred tokens at
startup. Layer four are plugins. A
plugin bundles skills, connectors, and
commands into one installable package,
right? If a skill is a cheat sheet, a
plugin is the entire toolkit. So, for
example, a sales accelerator plugin that
includes Apollo and Outreach connectors,
right? A prospect profiling command and
a sales analyst sub-agent, all in one
install. Someone builds it once and your
whole team installs it everywhere. And
Anthropic also launched a plugin
marketplace in February 2026, and
enterprise customers can create private
plugin marketplaces,
organization-specific plugins. And they
can also control who can install what
and auto-install approved plugins for
new team members. And this is how AI
capabilities get distributed across
organizations at scale. And now we get
to layer five, which are agents, right?
This is the new layer. This is managed
agents. An agent doesn't wait for you to
ask it something, right? It runs
automatically for hours. It calls tools,
writes code, handles errors. It works
exactly like an employee, just kind of
like open Claude. You you give it a task
and then it gets the task done. And if
something goes wrong, it goes it goes
ahead and figures it out. You're not
standing over its shoulder hand-holding
it about telling it what to do, what not
to do. And this is exactly what Notion,
Sentry, and Rakuten are deploying right
now. And that is the layer that
separates people who use AI from people
who who has AI to work for them. And
now, people always ask me, "Hey Hugo,
what's the difference between, you know,
a skill and an agent? When do I use
which?" So, let me give you the simplest
way to kind of think about it. A skill
is kind of like a recipe card, right? It
tells Claude how to make a specific
dish, let's say, you know, pad thai or a
Philly cheesesteak, but you are still in
the kitchen, you right? You initiate the
task, you check the output, you decide
when it's done. An agent, on the other
hand, is the chef, right? You tell the
chef exactly what you want to eat, let's
say, I want a cheesesteak and it goes,
finds the ingredients, it goes and makes
it, and also delivers it to your table.
If something goes wrong, they're out of
an ingredient, the oven breaks, they
figure it out themselves. Skills make
Claude smarter at a specific single
task, and agents makes Claude
independent. It can, you know, go grab
skills, you grab tools, you know, fix
things, and then grabs the final product
and hand it to you. So, when should you
use a skill versus when should you use
an agent? If the task takes you around 5
minutes and and you just want Claude to
do it better, that's a skill. Enforce
your brand voice, follow your review
checklist, format a report the way you
like it, use skills for that. But if the
task takes 1 hour, requires multiple
steps, involves calling different tools,
and you don't want to baby sit it,
that's an agent. Let's say, monitor your
ad spend overnight, process 50 inbound
leads while you sleep, scan your
competitors' YouTube channels, and write
up the outliers before your morning
coffee, that's an agent's work. And
here's the nuance that most people kind
of miss. You can put skills inside
agents, by the way. The agent is the
worker, the skills are the expertise
that the workers carry. So, your lead
processing agent might have a skill for
qualifying prospects, another skill for
drafting personalized emails, another
skill for responding to those emails,
and a skill for scoring urgency. Let's
say some some replies are negative, some
replies are positive. You can give them
individual skills to score whether or
not those replies are negative or
positive. Let's say you're emailing
1,000 business owners, 99% of them are
going to say [__] off or say no or hey,
you know, [__] you or don't email me
again, you know, the agent needs to
distinct needs to be able to, you know,
figure out which one is positive and
which one is negative. So, let's talk a
little bit about pricing right now.
There're two components, the standard
Claude API tokens right here. You pay
for model usage like any API call plus
an agent runtime fee of 8 cents per
session hour. So, if your coding agent
runs for 30 minutes, that's 4 cents in
runtime plus whatever tokens it's
consumed, right? That's the cost of
sandboxing, state management, credential
handling, tracing, all of that handled
for you. that to building all of this
yourself, right? Months of engineering
time, server costs, maintenance. For
most teams, 8 cents an hour to let
Anthropic handle this is an absolute
no-brainer.
And for context here, Silicon Angle
confirmed the pricing at standard token
rates. Now, let's zoom out a little bit
because the product is pretty
interesting, right? But the strategy
behind it is what you really kind of
need to understand for us to really
predict what's going to happen in a
couple weeks or a few months, right?
Anthropic is no longer just selling you
a language model. They're selling you
the entire runtime for your agents. And
once your agents, your monitoring
dashboards, your session logs, your
permission configs, once all of that
lives inside the Claude platform, your
switching costs go up significantly. And
they're not the only ones doing this,
right? OpenAI has Codex and the
Assistants API, Google has Gemini agents
on Vertex, Salesforce has Agent Force,
Microsoft has Copilot Studio. Every
major AI lab literally making the same
play to make you stay using their AI.
Here's a pattern, right? The model gets
you in the door, all right? The
infrastructure keeps you there, and
that's where the real lock-in happens.
Think about cloud computing, right? 10
years ago, AWS was just a server you
rented. Now, it's the platform your
entire business runs on. Same pattern is
happening with AI right now. The model
is the server and the agent
infrastructure is the platform. So, what
should you do with this? So, if you're
building AI agents for your business or
for clients, managed agents is worth
testing. You know, they got a public
beta, consumption pricing, three entry
points to Claude console, the CLI, or
direct through Claude code. But, go in
with your eyes open, right? public beta,
not general availability. Multi-agent
coordination and self-evaluation are
still in research preview. So, you're
literally building on Anthropic's
infrastructure, which means you depend
on their uptime, their pricing
decisions, and their platform roadmap.
The agents as infrastructure wave is
real and it's already here. The question
isn't whether to build the agents, it's
where you deploy them. And now Anthropic
is saying deploy them here and we'll
handle the hard parts. So, if you want
to try this today, there are three ways,
right? First is the Claude console right
here at platform.claude.com.
Go to agent quick start and that's the
visual interface, right? The second
method is CLI, you deploy it in your
terminal or use VS code. And third, and
this is the one I recommend if you're
already using in Claude code, just open
it and say start onboarding for managed
agents in Claude API. It uses a built-in
skill to walk you through the setup.
your agent with a natural language
description or a YAML config file. You
specify the task, the tools, and the
guardrails, and Anthropic handles the
rest. And for those of you using Open
Claude or running Open Claude on a Mac
Mini, this is a different tool for a
different job, right? Open Claude is
your always-on personal automation
daemon. Managed agents is for deploying
production agents that serve users or
teams at scale. You might use both, Open
Claude for your morning briefings,
managed agents for client-facing or
team-facing deployments. So, if you
enjoyed this video so far today, and if
you want access to this document right
here, make sure you click on the link
down in the description down below to
join my community called AI Insiders.
And we have a couple of these documents
coming out every single week. So, if you
want access to these updates, newest
trends, newest use cases, network with
other AI geeks in the community, make
sure you click on the link down in the
description down below, and I'm excited
to see you there. And if you enjoyed
this video today, make sure you give
this video a like, comment, and
subscribe, and I'm excited to see you in
the next video.